- [Instructor] Another cool built in feature of both
Spring Data JPA and Spring Data REST is the ease of adding
paging and sorting to a repository and an API.
We add paging and sorting to the tours API by extending
the tour repository from paging and sorting repository.
So on the URL, these are the parameters you would use
for paging and sorting.
There is a size parameter, which takes the size of
the page that you want to retrieve.
The default of that is 20 if you don't provide it.
The page parameter is the page number you want to fetch
so that there are several pages, which one do you want,
where zero is the first, and the default,
if you don't provide it, is zero.
Sort is the order of your search results.
By default, if you do not provide the sort parameter,
it will sort by the entity ID.
And if you want to give a direction of your sort,
you can optionally put in A-S-C for ascending
or D-E-S-C for descending.
So let's modify the tour repository.
So instead of us going from crowd repository,
we're going to say paging and sorting repository.
And if you wanted to add paging to a particular method,
you return a page, in this case a page of tours
and then add an extra parameter of type Pageable.
Okay, so let's run that.
Okay, it's started.
Let's go to post man.
And now we're going to invoke the tours API,
but with the paging and sorting parameters.
So the tours endpoint is up and we're going to add
size equals three.
So will give us the pages that are of three elements,
three tours, and the page we want is the second page
which we would identify as page one.
And sort is by the title attribute.
And we do ASC for ascending, which will be sorted
in alphabetical order of the title.
So let's see what we got here we have three tours,
the first Avila,
second Big Sur Retreat,
and the third is Channel Island Excursions.
Now let's try that again, but with our tour
package code search.
We're going to search for those tours that
are in California calm.
And we're going to have the size equal to two.
And we're not going to select the page and we're going
to sort by the title ascending again.
So we have Day Spa package
and Huntington library.
Even more cool is that the response contains
hyperlink keys for navigating between pages.
The response contains a trace called first, last, and next.
Front end developers love this by using these HRF's
they don't have to calculate the last page number
or have to keep the state of the current page, they just use
these labels to reference the links.
We also see at the bottom is some metadata.
If the client chooses not to use those links, the API
also provides more page metadata at the bottom
of the response packet.
So they can just calculate it themselves
on the client side, if they want to.